README.md, before:

# 👋 Hi, I'm Alphin

<a href="https://linkedin.com/in/alphinshibu"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-0072b1?&style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white" /></a>

###  Aspiring SOC Analyst | Cybersecurity Enthusiast | Blue Team Focus

Motivated cybersecurity professional with hands-on experience in SIEM monitoring, threat detection, log analysis, and incident response. I focus on solving security problems and understanding how attacks unfold from both defensive and offensive perspectives.

## Objective

My journey in Information Security Analyst has led me to develop a passion for cybersecurity, and I am now eager to transition into this field, specifically aiming to join a Security Operations Center (SOC) Analyst.

## Skills

| Skill                               | Associated Project |
|------------------------------------|------------------|
| Splunk                              | [DNS Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Splunk---Analyzing-DNS-Log-Files/blob/main/README.md), [SSH Log Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Splunk---SSH-Log-Analysis/blob/main/README.md), [HTTP Log Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Splunk---HTTP-Log-Analysis/blob/main/README.md), [Zeek Log Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Splunk---Zeek-Connection-Log-Analysis/blob/main/README.md), [Unauthorized Access](https://github.com/Alphin619/Splunk---Investigating-Unauthorized-Access/blob/main/README.md) |
| Home Lab                            | Home Lab |
| Wireshark                           | [ICMP Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Wireshark---ICMP-Analysis/blob/main/README.md), [TCP Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Wireshark---TCP-Protocol-Analysis/blob/main/README.md), [HTTP Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Wireshark---HTTP-analysis/blob/main/README.md), [TLS Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Wireshark---TLS-analysis/blob/main/README.md), [Detecting & Investigating Malware Traffic](https://github.com/Alphin619/Wireshark---Detecting-and-Investigating-Malware-Traffic/blob/main/README.md), [TCP-Zero Window](https://github.com/Alphin619/Wireshark---TCP-Zero-Window/blob/main/README.md), [Keylogger Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Wireshark---Keylogger-Analysis/blob/main/README.md) |
| Snort                               | [Setup & Test run](https://github.com/Alphin619/Snort---Setting-up-Snort-and-Test-run/blob/main/README.md) |
| Nessus| [Self Vulnerability Scan](https://github.com/Alphin619/Nessus---Vulnerability-Scanning/blob/main/README.md), [Basic Network Scan](https://github.com/Alphin619/Nesus---Metasploitable-2-basic-scan/blob/main/README.md), [Advanced Scan](https://github.com/Alphin619/Nessus---Advanced-Scan/blob/main/README.md), [Web Application Test](https://github.com/Alphin619/Nessus---Web-Application-Test/blob/main/README.md) |


##  Technical Skills

**Security Operations:**  
SIEM Monitoring | Log Analysis | Incident Response | Threat Detection | SOC Triage  

**Tools & Platforms:**  
Splunk | ELK/Kibana | Wireshark | Nessus | Nmap | Snort | Volatility | Metasploit | pfSense  

**Frameworks & Standards:**  
MITRE ATT&CK | NIST | CIS Controls | ISO 27001 | Zero Trust  

**Tech Knowledge:**  
Firewall management | Network segmentation | Phishing analysis | Secure remote access  

**Programming / Scripting:**  
Linux | Bash | Python | SQL | JavaScript | Regex  

## TryHackMe Labs and Challenge rooms

### **Splunk SIEM Deployment & Threat Detection**
Configured Splunk, built SPL queries, created alerts, and detected anomalies including unauthorized accounts, PowerShell abuse, and suspicious logins.

### **ELK Stack Log Investigation**
Investigated VPN logs, identified malicious IPs, reconstructed payload paths, and documented IOCs.

### **Wireshark Traffic & Intrusion Analysis**
Analyzed PCAP files for exfiltration indicators, command injection, and suspicious DNS/TCP streams.

### **Snort Intrusion Detection**
Created custom Snort rules and detected brute-force attempts and reverse shells in live simulations.

### **Memory Forensics (Volatility 3)**
Investigated memory images to identify processes, extract hashes, and detect credential theft.

### **pfSense Home Lab**
Built a segmented network environment for testing attacks and defensive controls.

##  Training & Certifications

<a href="https://tryhackme.com/certificate/THM-GWLVNSLDYP" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Cyber_Security_101-green?style=for-the-badge" alt="Cyber Security 101 Badge" />
</a>
<a href="https://www.credential.net/b04852d6-a86c-4b4d-9221-1fbcd80cb48d#acc.92Xx03yn">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Information_Security_Analyst_(Honors)-blue?style=for-the-badge" />
</a>
  
<a href="https://www.credly.com/badges/c3d50118-4981-46af-9975-c19ffd3a1cf8">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Security%2B-FF0000?style=for-the-badge&logo=CompTIA&logoColor=white" />
</a>

<a href="https://tryhackme-certificates.s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/THM-LY9I0E3DJ8.pdf">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Pre--Security-red?style=for-the-badge" />
</a>  

##  Currently Learning
- SIEM content development  
- Threat hunting methodologies  
- Vulnerability scanning  
- Python automation for detection & analysis  

---

>  *Always learning, always improving and always curious about how attackers think.*

Commit message:

Revise README for clarity and updated skills
Updated personal description and skills section in README.

README.md, after:

# 👋 Hi, I'm Alphin

<a href="https://linkedin.com/in/alphinshibu"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-0072b1?&style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white" /></a>

###  Aspiring SOC Analyst | Cybersecurity Enthusiast | Blue Team Focus

Crtified cybersecurity professional with hands-on experience in SIEM monitoring, threat detection, log analysis, and incident response. I focus on solving security problems and understanding how attacks unfold from both defensive and offensive perspectives.

## Objective

My journey in Information Security Analyst has led me to develop a passion for cybersecurity, and I am now eager to transition into this field, specifically aiming to join a Security Operations Center (SOC) Analyst and to progress from there.

## Tools

| Tools                               | Associated Project |
|------------------------------------|------------------|
| [Splunk](https://github.com/search?q=user%3AAlphin619+Splunk&type=repositories)                              | [DNS Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Splunk---Analyzing-DNS-Log-Files/blob/main/README.md), [SSH Log Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Splunk---SSH-Log-Analysis/blob/main/README.md), [HTTP Log Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Splunk---HTTP-Log-Analysis/blob/main/README.md), [Zeek Log Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Splunk---Zeek-Connection-Log-Analysis/blob/main/README.md), [Unauthorized Access](https://github.com/Alphin619/Splunk---Investigating-Unauthorized-Access/blob/main/README.md) |
| Home Lab                            | Home Lab |
| [Wireshark](https://github.com/search?q=user%3AAlphin619+Wireshark&type=repositories)                         | [ICMP Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Wireshark---ICMP-Analysis/blob/main/README.md), [TCP Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Wireshark---TCP-Protocol-Analysis/blob/main/README.md), [HTTP Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Wireshark---HTTP-analysis/blob/main/README.md), [TLS Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Wireshark---TLS-analysis/blob/main/README.md), [Detecting & Investigating Malware Traffic](https://github.com/Alphin619/Wireshark---Detecting-and-Investigating-Malware-Traffic/blob/main/README.md), [TCP-Zero Window](https://github.com/Alphin619/Wireshark---TCP-Zero-Window/blob/main/README.md), [Keylogger Analysis](https://github.com/Alphin619/Wireshark---Keylogger-Analysis/blob/main/README.md) |
| [Snort](https://github.com/search?q=user%3AAlphin619+Snort&type=repositories)                               | [Setup & Test run](https://github.com/Alphin619/Snort---Setting-up-Snort-and-Test-run/blob/main/README.md) |
| [Nessus](https://github.com/search?q=user%3AAlphin619+Nessus&type=repositories)| [Self Vulnerability Scan](https://github.com/Alphin619/Nessus---Vulnerability-Scanning/blob/main/README.md), [Basic Network Scan](https://github.com/Alphin619/Nesus---Metasploitable-2-basic-scan/blob/main/README.md), [Advanced Scan](https://github.com/Alphin619/Nessus---Advanced-Scan/blob/main/README.md), [Web Application Test](https://github.com/Alphin619/Nessus---Web-Application-Test/blob/main/README.md) |
| T-Pot honeypot |upcoming|

##  Technical Skills

**Security Operations:**  
SIEM Monitoring | Log Analysis | Incident Response | Threat Detection | SOC Triage  

**Tools & Platforms:**  
Splunk | ELK/Kibana | Wireshark | Nessus | Nmap | Snort | Volatility | Metasploit | pfSense  

**Frameworks & Standards:**  
MITRE ATT&CK | NIST | CIS Controls | ISO 27001 | Zero Trust  

**Tech Knowledge:**  
Firewall management | Network segmentation | Phishing analysis | Secure remote access  

**Programming / Scripting:**  
Linux | Bash | Python | SQL | JavaScript | Regex  

## TryHackMe Labs and Challenge rooms

### **Splunk SIEM Deployment & Threat Detection**
Configured Splunk, built SPL queries, created alerts, and detected anomalies including unauthorized accounts, PowerShell abuse, and suspicious logins.

### **ELK Stack Log Investigation**
Investigated VPN logs, identified malicious IPs, reconstructed payload paths, and documented IOCs.

### **Wireshark Traffic & Intrusion Analysis**
Analyzed PCAP files for exfiltration indicators, command injection, and suspicious DNS/TCP streams.

### **Snort Intrusion Detection**
Created custom Snort rules and detected brute-force attempts and reverse shells in live simulations.

### **Memory Forensics (Volatility 3)**
Investigated memory images to identify processes, extract hashes, and detect credential theft.

### **pfSense Home Lab**
Built a segmented network environment for testing attacks and defensive controls.

##  Training & Certifications

<a href="https://tryhackme.com/certificate/THM-GWLVNSLDYP" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Cyber_Security_101-green?style=for-the-badge" alt="Cyber Security 101 Badge" />
</a>
<a href="https://www.credential.net/b04852d6-a86c-4b4d-9221-1fbcd80cb48d#acc.92Xx03yn">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Information_Security_Analyst_(Honors)-blue?style=for-the-badge" />
</a>
  
<a href="https://www.credly.com/badges/c3d50118-4981-46af-9975-c19ffd3a1cf8">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Security%2B-FF0000?style=for-the-badge&logo=CompTIA&logoColor=white" />
</a>

<a href="https://tryhackme-certificates.s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/THM-LY9I0E3DJ8.pdf">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Pre--Security-red?style=for-the-badge" />
</a>  

##  Currently Learning
- SIEM content development  
- Threat hunting methodologies  
- Vulnerability scanning  
- Python automation for detection & analysis  

---

>  *Always learning, always improving and always curious about how attackers think.*
